---
layout: post
title: "Week 18 - Documentation"
date: 2021-02-20 17:40:35 +0000
categories: jekyll update
---

## Overview

This week we have started on creating documentation for our application so that users or future developers can have a better understanding of our app.

## User Manual

To begin our documentation bit, we decided to start with the `user manual` since we have finished all functions and UI design but we haven’t deployed the web app yet.

We hope that with help of this overall tutorial, users are able to get familiar with the web app independently and understand the functionality clearly.

We have four pages for the user-manual and the pages are `Home`, `Getting Started`, `Clinicians` and `Patients`. `Home` page contains a piece of welcome information, an abstract of our project and a list of shortcuts for the users the contents they want quickly. The `Getting Started` page is like a condensed version of the whole user manual. It consisted of some important functions, but they are not described in details. Since we have two roles in this web app, clinicians and patients, thus, this user manual also describes how to use the web app for both two roles. On both the `Clinicians` page and `Patients` page, we provide a lot of detailed descriptions and screenshots for every single step to make sure that the users can follow with us and never feel confused.

When writing documents, we decided to use `MkDocs`. From our perspective, we tend to consider `MkDocs` is a strong and user-friendly static site generator. Strong means this tool has more useful and powerful functions, such as preview and build. Also, user-friendly implies that the users don’t need to spend a lot of time learning how to write docs on this platform since the documentation source files are written in `Markdown`. Besides, there also a bunch of great themes available for users to customize the website.

The first step to using `MkDocs` is installation. According to the official guidance, `MkDocs` needs to be installed with `Python` after running `pip install mkdocs`. For the next step, the user can feel free to edit the files and the build-in server allows the user to preview the documentation anytime by running `mkdocs serve`. If the user is satisfied with the documentation, running `mkdocs build` to build the documentation and then running `mkdocs gh-deploy` to host the website using GitHub pages. 

Our user manual documentation can be found [here](https://comp0016-team6.github.io/user-manual/).

## Next

We will continue to add more to our documentation, particularly the deployment manual can be done as soon as we deployed the app.
